When you're young and at school, it's hard to think about the future.
Your entire life can be affected by what you do when you're young,
what you decide for your career, or also spiritually speaking.
Also, there's so many choices. It's hard for the person to know whether
this choice is right or this choice is wrong.
It's scary because you're in the mentality where you have to decide what to do with the rest of
your whole life. Young people from four different countries now discuss,
what will I do with my life?
Today's world urges young ones to have a materialistic view of life,
appealing to what the Bible calls the desire of the eyes.
You want the best. As a result of this materialistic pressure,
many young people consider attaining financial success to be their top priority.
And more than just choosing a career that they really like, they just like,
oh, that's the car I want, how do I get it?
Or that's the house I want, how do I get there? How much do I have to make?
They kind of equate money with success. If you have lots of money,
then you're automatically respected by society.
So if you have very little financially, you're not worth anything. You have to leave your family
and go to another country to earn money. Then you're going to be rich and be something in life.
Secular goals are often promoted at school by peers and by well-intentioned educators.
And I see that you are in the top 5% of your class.
Christian youths often feel pressured to pursue lucrative jobs and time-consuming careers.
Such pressure may make it difficult to keep spiritual goals in view.
At school, I'm constantly told what a teacher think and mean and what is the best goal in life in their
life. Because they see your academic performance, they see what you're good at and what you're
not good at and they try, they think they're helping, they try and push you in a certain direction.
If they flat out, told us, if you don't go to college, you'll be nothing, you're not going to
make any money, you're never going to make enough money to support a family. You'll never be
ought to get married, have kids or own a house. Education can be valuable and beneficial.
In any school I wanted, it's just really confusing.
But how much education is necessary?
Christian parents can help young ones bear in mind the Bible's reminder at 1 John 217.
Furthermore, the world is passing away and so is its desire, but he that does the will of God
remains forever. It's invading that you follow these pursuits because in the end this world is
going to be gone and all those accolades you get mean nothing. Once the glory and the glamour
wears off, you're left with what the meaning to your life is and a lot of people don't have a
real meaning or a real focus or a real purpose. I actually had a chance to work with people who
were rich and famous and I saw that they weren't really that happy. If you have family problems and
you don't have any kind of relationship with God, what kind of happiness is that?
Yes, the Bible makes it clear that lasting happiness and fulfillment will come only if you put
the doing of Jehovah's will ahead of all other things. To do this means taking a very important step.
Jesus commanded that all his followers be baptized. Water baptism is evidence that we have
truly dedicated ourselves to God. It opens the door to a joyful life of service to God.
Some however put off taking this important step. A lot of kids like they really love Jehovah and they
want to like serve Jehovah but they only think about well what if I mess up or what if I do wrong
and then Jehovah's never going to forgive me or you know my parents is like to them it's like a
whole load of pressure. As we know this constant feeling that I must render him an account
is a little frightening. It's awesome and it's also healthy to have that fear because baptism
is a big step but because it's such a big step it's the biggest step you can take to the
on the path to everlasting life but does it make sense to let fear hold you back from doing what
is right? For example getting a driver's license there's lots of consequences you could crash
you could injure someone you love but does it stop you from getting your permit?
You're accountable to Jehovah from the moment that you know his standards regardless of whether
you're baptized or not because you know what Jehovah expects of you so from that moment on you're
accountable to him. Perhaps you have held back from dedicating your life to Jehovah.
What are some things that can help you to reach the point of baptism?
First you may need to prove the truth to yourself.
Spiritual self-examination is so important. Kind of sit back and ask yourself questions like
how real is Jehovah? Even though that's a basic concept or something that's pretty basic,
how real is Jehovah to me? How real is the new system to me? Do I really feel that we're so close
to the end? I always trusted that what's in the Bible is true and it's good and it's beneficial
for us but there was a point in my life where I said well I really need to prove this to myself.
It's not enough just to have have heard this and been taught that it's true.
I used to ask myself how does Jehovah's organization know about specific dates like 1914?
How do they have that information?
What helped me to clear those doubts near the time of my baptism was researching things.
Take personal Bible studies seriously.
Proving the truth to yourself can clear up any doubts that might hold you back.
We need regular Bible study. Study the publications. Not just the basic things but go deeper to make
sure that it is the truth. But you need to do more than prove the truth to yourself.
You also need to draw close to Jehovah. For a while my peers were kind of automatic but they weren't
too meaningful. It wasn't like I was talking to a friend.
It is something that you must work for, this appreciation for the truth. You really have to build
up a relationship with Jehovah. Just read the Bible daily as we're constantly instructed.
You develop a strong relationship with Jehovah. Then later when I started praying longer,
same more meaningful things. And then all of a sudden you realize I am becoming closer to Jehovah.
It's only by studying the Bible that we can make Jehovah real to us.
When he is real to us, we're going to feel motivated to worship him.
With time and effort, you can reach the point of dedication and baptism, personal research,
daily Bible reading, attendance at congregation meetings and heartfelt prayer will help you prove
the truth to yourself and get to know and love Jehovah. In time, your heart will move you to make
a complete dedication and lead a life of service to Jehovah God. All dedicated Christians must
heed Christ's command to make disciples. As a young person, you have a unique opportunity to
help others to serve God. However, not all young ones may fully enjoy the ministry.
I found going into service every maybe once a week, once or twice a week to be very boring.
You would knock on doors and no one would be home. And I felt like, well, when's our next coffee
break? I was at school. I really did not like the ministry because I'd go out for an hour on
Saturday and an hour on Sunday and I would not accomplish anything. So I never felt I was getting
anywhere and that's why I found it boring. What are some things that can help you to learn to enjoy
the ministry? First, cultivate the right attitude toward the ministry. A lot of young people think
that the reason we go out in the ministry is to leave literature with people. The real reason
that we go out is to bring praise to Jehovah God by our lips. And when you realize that,
it really makes the ministry more joyful. Going out in the field service isn't a burden,
it's a privilege. It is something that will never happen again and it's worth the effort.
I speaking to some other pioneers and they said, the more you do the ministry, the more enjoyable it is.
And that is so true. The more you go out on the service, the more calls you have,
you may be blessed with a Bible study. Being on the ministry actually made me enjoy the ministry.
I suddenly I was at ease, I could talk to people and I was actually having a productive ministry.
So with that in mind, having the right attitude toward the ministry will help you to enjoy it.
Even so, the ministry can be challenging at times. Good morning sir, my name is Dan.
But what I found quite difficult was the rejection that came with the ministry and I think young
people in general find it quite difficult to deal with the rejection. I have a problem with
speaking to people, I don't know. I just can't come about just saying what I want to say.
I might have this perfect presentation up in my head but then whatever comes up in my mouth is
like blah, blah, blah, blah. You know, no real words. So while young kids might be scared of going
out there and talking to people, they might be shy, they might not like going up to people and
telling them. For some young ones, there is something that they may fear even more than talking to a
stranger. Good morning, where? Dan? What are you doing here, man? My greatest horror was meeting
one of my schoolmates at a door because not everyone knew that I was a witness. I sometimes
look down the street to make sure that none of them lived there and I had such strong inhibitions
and that blocks you. It only became better when I publicly professed my faith in Jehovah.
Yeah, I think especially when your young fear of man plays a very big part. Not so much
that the service is perhaps boring but rather daunting. Personally, I used to freeze at the thought
of working in an area where my school friends would be or sometimes my teachers would live.
I just used to get this kind of, just a freezing of my heart almost and I would just want to run
the other way. So it's definitely, you have to get over that initial fear of man.
How can you overcome your fears and develop courage to speak?
I think our mindset has to be right and the organisation teaches us quite well in that we
bear a message from Jehovah and really they're not rejecting me.
I have noticed that when you are not enjoying yourself, it's because you are not really prepared.
Preparation is so key. If I don't feel comfortable at the door, then I don't do very well.
In addition to proper preparation, prayer is very important, especially when you have negative
feelings because after all, it's Jehovah's work. It's not carried out in our own strength.
The example of the Apostle Paul helped me. He wasn't ashamed of the good news. He preached
zealously and that strengthened me to lose my fear. There's just like jumping in a pool and the
deep end for the first time you got to do it and a lot of times that call that you're so nervous,
that house that you're so nervous to go to, you have a really great experience.
Yes, it takes courage to preach God's word.
But always remember that our courage comes from Jehovah.
What else is needed besides the right attitude and courage?
I'm going to help you. Good morning. How are you? I'm here with my friend to run the
Hobus Witnesses? Yes, Jehovah's Witnesses. You know, one thing I've always wondered is where
Jehovah's Witnesses get that date? 1914. Where do you get it? All alone.
To enjoy the ministry, you also need to develop a measure of skill.
I think one of the biggest problems with using the ministry and finding it boring is that they've
never been trained. They go out there and they read the cover of the magazine and say,
would you like to read this magazine? It's on. And that's all they do. They never do return visits.
They don't experience Bible studies. And that's really where the joy of the ministry is.
I remember one of the sisters encouraging me to go street ministering. And I must have
gone out street ministering, I don't know, four months before I actually plucked up the courage to
speak to a person. And she was like, you know, you've got to talk to people. I'm not going to walk
around here with you. She forced me to talk to people. And it's only when you get into doing that,
that you can actually get a bit of confidence and you learn to trust in Jehovah and do some more
preparation. And then it starts to work. But loving the ministry doesn't come first. It comes with
the effort. You have to take the initiative and work with people like pioneers. They have
experienced in the full-time service. Ask, how do they do it? Join the pioneers of this program.
That is what helped me working with some of the mature friends who have been pioneering for years.
Well, why don't you type in the last days? Let's see what you come up with.
With the help of your parents or an experienced publisher or a pioneer,
learn how to do deep research into God's word. This can broaden your knowledge and help you to
gain confidence as a teacher. So we have talked about 1914 last week. You know, I'll do
to do some research. And there's several lines of evidence that the Bible points to 1914.
The first is Jesus' prophecy, found in Matthew chapter 24. Maybe I could show you in your
personal copy of the Bible. Becoming skilled in using the Bible itself can also build your confidence
and increase your joy in the ministry. Read verse three. It reminds me of the scripture that
God needs to live, exhaust power. And that's what it feels like when you're talking to someone
and you bring out God's word that Bible will show them a scripture and see their eyes light up.
I also discovered that service simply is nicer. You feel that you really give something to the people.
But the feeling of actually being able to find a scripture that would then be able to maybe change
someone's mind or show them the truth is an incredible feeling. Thanks, Mr. John. See you next week.
By developing the right attitude and the courage to speak and becoming skilled and speaking to
others, you will no longer find the ministry to be so daunting. In fact, it is something you will
learn to enjoy. So you notice what the verse there says, and this good news of the kingdom will
be preached in all the inhabitants of this. The Apostle Paul said, to what extent we have made progress,
let us go on walking orderly in this same routine. Pioneering offers you many opportunities to
advance spiritually. Pioneering can help you to sharpen spiritual skills, your ability to use the
Bible, your ability to teach. Pioneering also allows you to enjoy association with other zealous
preachers. Nevertheless, some may hesitate to enter this door of service. I think some
youngsters think that you have to be cut out for Pioneer and you have to be made for it. You have
to love the ministry right from the start. You go out with other pioneers and they're doing all
these nice presentations at the door, conducting all these Bible studies, and I felt like I didn't
know enough scriptures. I didn't know the Bible like they did. It seemed like their hands, which
is fine stuff. I didn't even know that was there. So I just didn't feel like I knew enough. I felt
like how could I be a pioneer? I don't know anything. Many think that pioneers can't do anything.
Pioneers are narrow-minded. They are saints. They have to be perfect.
Be assured, however, that you do not need to be perfect or unusually gifted to enter the full-time
service. So I said, wow, they can do it so well. Why can't I? They know the Bible by heart,
but now I simply know that good preparation is important and that everybody can manage to give
a good witness which Jehovah's help. Not every pioneer first knows every scripture. They don't
know how to answer every question, but as years go by, as months go by, you learn how to look up
those scriptures, find those scriptures, and you become better in your ministry. Don't compare yourself
to the pioneer who's been out in the ministry for 30 years. Measure yourself from when you start
pioneering, maybe after a year, reevaluate, and you'll be amazed how much progress you've made.
Nevertheless, some may still hold back from full-time service because of economic concerns,
or because they feel that priority should be given to education. How can you meet these challenges?
First, by cultivating trust in Jehovah to provide for you. Jesus told his disciples not to be
anxious over material things, but to seek first God's kingdom and to trust in God to provide for them.
If we really trust him, all these other things will be added to us. He will never let us suffer
necessity or want because we have chosen to serve him. I come from a single parent home, so my
concern was really to help out my mom. And she was like, I don't know why you worried about it.
And she's like, Jehovah has provided for us through all this time. If you pioneer, we'll have
you more blessings. Even so, it is wise to apply Jesus counsel to maintain
a simple eye. You just have to be practical. Sometimes when you go shopping, you just have to say,
do I really need this or do I just want it? The service and you have to realize that it's a simple
life and full-time service is a sacrifice. First Timothy 6, 6 through 8 talks about being content
with basic things, our sustenance and covering. While full-time evangelizers must trust in Jehovah,
they must still work to support themselves. In preparation for a career and full-time service,
it may be possible to select courses in school that will teach you a trade.
While planning for your education, it is important to keep your focus on spiritual goals.
I think possibly the key is to trust in Jehovah because if you're constantly feeling that
if you don't get this qualification, that qualification and the one that comes after,
you're not going to get a job that's good enough to support you pioneering, you won't get that
job that's good enough to support you pioneering. A lot of pioneers have spoken to have fallen into
their jobs, or they've started off in something small and found that there was a way to get into
something better. My parents supported me as a pioneer, but then I took a technical course in
architecture. Things didn't work out very well because of my work schedule, which messed up my
pioneering. Then I developed a skill that I didn't even know I had, handicrafts. Jehovah
blessed me so much that now I'm earning more in handicrafts than I would have if I had stayed
in architecture. I went to a vocational high school in architectural drafting. I became friends
with a brother who was an architect and when I graduated, he invited me to work in the firm that
he was in. I learned a lot of the things that I know just from working there. I work as a secretary
and I do medical transcription. Since I went to a vocational high school, they trained me in office
work. My senior year, I took works that day where you go to school half a day and I worked construction.
I did kitchen and bathroom modeling. I learned a lot about the trade, and then when I moved
the way, I got a job working on a retail store selling building materials. I'm a dental assistant.
I'm the job training and then in the state that I live in, you can go to school and get your
license, but it's only like one day a week and it worked out really well. I've heard quite a lot of
people who are pioneers, they've got the perfect job, the most wonderful job, but I've never actually
had that. The job I'm in at the moment, I don't particularly enjoy, but I've been there for four
years and it allows me to pioneer. When we trust in Jehovah and recognise that he's the one that's
going to make the way for us, then we put everything that we have into his hands and he always directs us
in the right way. What though if circumstances do not allow one to enter full-time service?
Jehovah knows of circumstances, not all of us can be pioneers now, but if we do, I'm very
best. Jehovah always remember that. We know that our worth before Jehovah is in measured in terms of
the number of hours that we attain or the results. Numbers don't matter to Jehovah, it's the motivation,
it's what we have in our heart. So what will you do with your life? An open door leading to many
avenues of service stands before you. Whatever your circumstances make serving Jehovah your main
goal in life. Have as full as share in the service as your circumstances allow. Set goals for
yourself. Constantly seek ways to improve the quality of your service to God. If you make serving
Jehovah your goal in life, you will truly find joy and fulfillment.